---
title: "Three-Dimensional Terrain Reconstruction using UAV Imagery and GPS RTK Systems"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: 
venue: "43rd Dayton-Cincinnati Aerospace Sciences Symposium, AIAA"
date: 2018-02-27
location: "Dayton, Ohio, USA"

---

<div style="text-align: justify"> 
The  advancements in  Unmanned  Aerial  Vehicle  (UAV)  technology  over  the  past  years  have created  many  opportunities  and  applications for UAVs in  the construction  and transportation industry. They are being used in monitoring and evaluation of construction sites, reconstruction of three-dimensional  terrains  and  mapping.  In  this study,  a  commonoperating  platform  is  being developed  for  Ohio  Department  of  Transportation (ODOT) to  collect  and  process  data  from unmanned aerial systems. Here, we focus on three-dimensional terrain reconstruction by using the global  positioning  system  real  time  kinetic (GPS  RTK)  and  Pix4D  mapping  software  platform. The overall operation involves onsite deployment of UAV and ground control points. The swift navigation Piksi GPS RTK system is utilized to obtain nearly accurate position data for the ground control points.Then, the location is surveyed from UAV way point navigation mission to collect the  images  of  the  terrain. Further,  the image  datais  post  processed  to  generate  the  three-dimensional reconstruction model of the desired location. The comparative representation of three-dimensional reconstruction with and without GPS RTK data has been shown. Further, it has been shown that the availability of GPS RTK position data drastically improves the three-dimensional model and reduces the differential position error between the ground control points. 
</div> 

