---
title: "Reconfigurable Fault-Tolerant Tilt-Rotor Quadcopter System"
collection: talks
type: "Presentation"
permalink: 
venue: "43rd Dayton-Cincinnati Aerospace Sciences Symposium, AIAA"
date: 2018-02-27
location: "Dayton, Ohio, USA"

---

<div style="text-align: justify"> 
In  this work,  fault-tolerance  characteristics  of  a  reconfigurable  tilt-rotor quadcopter  upon  a propeller  failure  are  presented.  Traditional  quadcopters  experience  instability  and  asymmetry about  yaw-axis  upon  a  propeller  failure  but  the design  and  control  presented  here  can  handle  a complete propeller failure. The tilt-rotor design is achieved by integrating a servo motor for each propeller of the UAV which facilitates the tilt motion of the rotor to change the direction of the trust force produced by the rotor. The tilt-rotor quadcopters are regarded as structural advancement of traditional quadcopters as they more number of independent control inputs for navigating the UAV in three dimensions. In present work, fault-tolerance is achieved by means of structural and flight controller reconfiguration. It has been shown that if the propeller failure occurs during flight,the reconfigured unmanned aerial system is controllable as well as observable and it completes the flight mission without much compromise in flight performance. The dynamics and control of the tilt-rotor quadcopter are presentedfor ideal flight condition and for the reconfigured system in case of propeller failure. Flight controllers for both dynamic models are analyzed and the applicability of  the  proposed  concept  is  presented  by propeller  failure simulation  during  the  way  point navigation mission forthe tilt-rotor quadcopter.  </div> 

