---
title: "A General Framework for Developing Customizable UAV Flight Control Software using PixHawk Pilot Simulink Support Package and Ground Control Support"
collection: talks
type: "Presentation"
permalink: 
venue: "43rd Dayton-Cincinnati Aerospace Sciences Symposium, AIAA"
date: 2018-02-27
location: "Dayton, Ohio, USA"

---

<div style="text-align: justify"> 
In this work, we discuss aprocedure to develop custom UAV flight controller software. Matlab and Simulink are popular control and simulation software used in academics and industry controls research. UAVs and Ground Robots control method implementation is challenging for researchers with little background in electronics or programming. In the past, researchers generated their own control software or used laborious open-source software to implement their control algorithms on commercially  available  hardware.  Generally,  low-level  access  is  limited  on  the  commercially available hardware such as DJIdrones. The Pixhawk Pilot Support Package (PSP) by Mathworks offers  a  toolbox  and  framework  for  efficient  transition  of  Simulink  models  to  hardware implementation. This implementation features methods that allow users to overcome issues such as wireless package loss by using tools such as MAVlink. It also allows users easy integration with many PX4 standard subsystems that monitor the UAV performance. A standard ground control station  such  as  QGroundControl  records  the  performance over  wirelesswith  no  setup  required. This functionality facilitates data collection and quick analysis of experimental results. The PX4 autopilot  software  supports  a  set  of  commonly  used,  standardized  procedures  such  as  remote-control  inputs,  extended  Kalman  filtering,  uORB  topic  management,  and  data  acquisition.  We utilized PSP to develop and demonstrate the lowest level of control on the commercially available PixHawk autopilot attached to a standard DJI flame wheel quadcopter. The system is verified by bench testing on a UAV test rig, then, further in RC controlled flight. The experimental results for controller tuning and flight tests are presented. We demonstrate how this process features quick deployment,  easy  customization,  and  low-level  access  for  new  UAV  and  ground  robot  control implementation.
</div> 

